New "Deprecation and Archiving Policy" (#878)
apache/cordova-docs: www/deprecation_policy.md

---
layout: contribute

> title: Apache Cordova Deprecation Policy

Author: ```suggestion
title: Apache Cordova Deprecation and Archiving Policy
```

---

# Deprecation and Archiving Policy

Apache Cordova has been around quite some time, having been started back in August 2008. As it consists of many individual "parts", some of those stopped being useful for any number of reasons. This "Deprecation and Archiving Policy" describes why, when and how projects can be deprecated and archived - and what that actually means.

## Deprecation Policy

When a piece of Apache Cordova stops being useful or necessary we vote on deprecating it on our [dev mailing list](/contact/).

### Reasons for Deprecation

> Some common reasons for deprecation of a piece of Apache Cordova are:

Author: ```suggestion
Some common reasons for deprecation of a component of Apache Cordova are:
```

- General availability of a web standard that achieves the same thing
- A better replacement is available somewhere else
- Usage of a platform declined to a non relevant level
- A platform was deprecated itself by its producer

### Meaning of Deprecation

> When we deprecate something it means no more work will be done on it. We make the deprecation clearly visible in the project's `README.md` (via a "Deprecation Notice" which might also include a reason and links to alternatives if available) and repository description.

Author: ```suggestion
When we deprecate a component it means no more work will be done on it. We make the deprecation clearly visible in the project's `README.md` (via a "Deprecation Notice") and repository description.
```

> **Users can still use the software** as before, we just put them on notice that the software might break in the future - e.g. with new operating system releases or bugs might be found - and we won't fix this any more.

Author: ```suggestion
**Users can still use the component** as before, we just put them on notice that the software might go away or break in the future - e.g. with new operating system releases or bugs might be found - and we won't fix this any more.
```

**Users can also still fork the repository** and create their own bug fixes and even new features. The forks will be discoverable with the GitHub "Network" and "Forks" features. There you can see all forks available and easily spot extra commits people have done in an easy and visual way.

## Archiving Policy

> A deprecated repository might also be archived if we won't provide support of any kind (Issues, Pull Requests, any releases) for this piece of software any more. Again the decision is made on our [dev mailing list](/contact/).

Author: ```suggestion
A deprecated repository might also be archived if we don't intend to provide support of any kind (Issues, Pull Requests, Releases) for this component any more. This decision is also made on our [dev mailing list](/contact/).
```

A repository can be deprecated and archived at the same time.

### Meaning of Archiving

> Additionally to the points listed in [Meaning of Deprecation](#meaning-of-deprecation), an archived repository is "read only". This is achieved by using GitHub's [archive repositories](https://help.github.com/articles/about-archiving-repositories/) feature:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As well as the points listed in [Meaning of Deprecation](#meaning-of-deprecation), an archived repository is "read only". This is achieved by using GitHub's [archive repositories](https://help.github.com/articles/about-archiving-repositories/) feature:
```

### Reasons for Deprecation

Some common reasons for deprecation of a piece of Apache Cordova are:

- General availability of a web standard that achieves the same thing
- A better replacement is available somewhere else
- Usage of a platform declined to a non relevant level
- A platform was deprecated itself by its producer

### Meaning of Deprecation

When we deprecate something it means no more work will be done on it. We make the deprecation clearly visible in the project's `README.md` (via a "Deprecation Notice" which might also include a reason and links to alternatives if available) and repository description.

**Users can still use the software** as before, we just put them on notice that the software might break in the future - e.g. with new operating system releases or bugs might be found - and we won't fix this any more.

**Users can also still fork the repository** and create their own bug fixes and even new features. The forks will be discoverable with the GitHub "Network" and "Forks" features. There you can see all forks available and easily spot extra commits people have done in an easy and visual way.

> **Apache Cordova _might_ still accept bug fixes via Pull Request** on the original repository and create a patch release.

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
layout: contribute
title: Apache Cordova Deprecation Policy
---

# Deprecation and Archiving Policy

Apache Cordova has been around quite some time, having been started back in August 2008. As it consists of many individual "parts", some of those stopped being useful for any number of reasons. This "Deprecation and Archiving Policy" describes why, when and how projects can be deprecated and archived - and what that actually means.

## Deprecation Policy

When a piece of Apache Cordova stops being useful or necessary we vote on deprecating it on our [dev mailing list](/contact/).

> ### Reasons for Deprecation

Author: Any other reasons for Deprecation that were applied in the past?

Reviewer 2: I remember "we" deprecated & dropped support for Amazon since the Amazon folks had dropped out, told people to just do a special Android build.

Author: That's what I thought of for "A platform was deprecated itself by its producer" - or what do mean by "dropped out"?

Reviewer 2: I guess I was not clear enough:
- By "Amazon folks" I meant the people who made the `cordova-amazon` platform repo and the people who supported the `cordova-amazon` platform.
- By "dropped out" I meant "quit updating and supporting `cordova-amazon`". This was my understanding from several years ago, way before I was a member. (I was not part of "we" back then.)

For reference:
- <https://github.com/apache/cordova-discuss/issues/32>
- <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/phonegap/6oZfxBc4hPc>

Author: Exactly, Amazon itself had "deprecated" `fireos` (and switched to more "stock" Android) which meant Cordova could also remove the platform. At least that's how I remember it. 

If you have a sentence I could add to the bullet list, I would be fine with adding it of course.

> Common reasons for deprecation of a piece of Apache Cordova are:

Reviewer 2: I would add the word "Some" at the beginning, to cover for the case where we want to deprecate for any other reasons.

Author: ```suggestion
Some common reasons for deprecation of a piece of Apache Cordova are:
```

- General availability of a web standard that achieves the same thing
- A better replacement is available somewhere else
- Usage of a platform declined to a non relevant level
- A platform was deprecated itself by its producer

> - ...

Reviewer 2: Let's not forget to get rid of the "..." item before merging:)

> - ...

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Meaning of Deprecation

> When we deprecate something it means no more work will be done on it. We make the deprecation clearly visible in the project's `README.md` (via a "Deprecation Notice" which might also include a reason and links to alternatives if available) and repository description.

Reviewer 2: - I would add an explicit note to the end of the first sentence that we would no longer support the project and there is a risk of security issues that will never be fixed.
- I would turn part of the second sentence into a bullet list and include an item in the middle that the project would be set to "archived" state on GitHub.

Author: I don't fully follow. Can you just comment some text as a suggestion please?

Reviewer 2: I guess you mean that you do not fully follow my second point. For clarity I will give an idea how I would rework the first paragraph, in a rough form:

> When we deprecate a component it means no more work will be done on it and it will no longer be supported. We make the deprecation clearly visible as follows:
> - mark the component as deprecated in the project's `README.md` (via a "Deprecation Notice")
> - mark the component as deprecated in the repository description.
> - add links to alternatives if available to the "deprecation notice" in `README.md`
> - set the repository to archived state as described in [link to archived section below]

**Users can still use the software** as before, we just put them on notice that the software might break in the future - e.g. with new operating system releases or bugs might be found - and we won't fix this any more.

**Users can also still fork the repository** and create their own bug fixes and even new features. The forks will be discoverable with the GitHub "Network" and "Forks" features. There you can see all forks available and easily spot extra commits people have done in an easy and visual way.

> **Apache Cordova _might_ still accept bug fixes via Pull Request** on the original repository and create a patch release.

Author: I know this will be controversial, so I highlight it. If majority doesn't want to have this in here, it can simply be removed before merging.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for highlighting it. I would vote :-1: since this is exactly the kind of thing we don't want to have to do with deprecated components (repos).

I would favor adding a note that we would be happy to add links to any relevant replacement projects instead.

Author: ```suggestion
```
